WiFi vs Xbee comparison.

Client Side Solution & Server Side Solution.

RSSI significant variations from WiFi:
1. Various chipsets/client device report RSSI differently
2. RSSI measurement are easily affected by different types of interferences from environmental effect (multipath & fading effect)
3. The relation between RSSI  values and distance between client side and access point side is unreliable

*multipath = the propagation phenomenon that results in radio signals' reaching the receiving antenna by two or more paths.
*fading = the distortion that a carrier-modulated telecommunication signal experiences over certain propagation media.

In wireless systems, fading is due to multipath propagation and is sometimes referred to as multipath induced fading.

RSSI (Received Signal Strength Indicator), which means indicator of the power of the received signal, indicated by the receiver device.
Carried out in time when uncontrolled interference are minimal.

Test-bed scenario:
4 devices router, 1 device station, 6m x 6m ROI, 1 m grid.
Routers use Esp32, static IP.
Station use Esp32, client service.
RSSI obtained for 5 seconds at each point (roughly 5 minutes for each iteration)
At every interation, 4 devices router with respective MAC Address are available, RSSI data then stored in time-series database.
Total amount of iteration not determined, but total time allocated is 15/30/60 minutes.

Interferences scenario: 
-Experiments without external interferences (Heatmap, mean, & variance display). 
-Experiments with external interferences (Heatmap, mean, & variance display). 
-Comparison and observation process which incorporates system with interference data included and without interference data included. 

External interference (controlled and uncontrolled)

Controlled (Jamming technique, Bluetooth beacon 24Ghz IEEE 802.15.4, max transmission power, as interference node, 5 positions; center of testbed, center of quadrant 1, center of quadrant 2, center of quadrant 3, center of quadrant 4).

Uncontrolled (People walking or use physical stuff such as table or chair,  inside the testbed, as a representative of dynamics environment).
